The President:
Good morning.
I want to briefly share
some news about our economy,
and talk about the work that
we're doing both to protect
American consumers, and to put our economy back on a path to
growth and prosperity.
This week, we saw some signs
that the gears of America's
economic engine are
slowly beginning to turn.
Consumer spending and home
sales are stabilizing.
Unemployment claims are
dropping and job losses are
beginning to slow.
But these trends are
far from satisfactory.
The unemployment rate is
at its highest point in
25 years.
We're still in the midst of a
deep recession that was years in
the making, and it will
take time to fully turn this
economy around.
We cannot rest until
our work is done.
Not when Americans continue to
lose their jobs and struggle to
pay their bills.
Not when we are wrestling
with record deficits and an
over-burdened middle class.
And that's why every action that
my Administration is taking is
focused on clearing away the
wreckage of this recession,
and building a New Foundation
for job-creation and
long-term growth.
This past week, we
acted on several fronts.
To restart the flow of credit
that businesses and individuals
depend upon, we completed an
unprecedented review of the
conditions of our nation's
largest banks to determine what
additional steps are necessary
to get our economy moving.
To restore fiscal discipline,
we identified 121 programs to
eliminate from our budget.
And to restore a sense of
fairness to our tax code and
common sense to our economy, I've asked Congress to work with
me in closing the loopholes
that let companies ship jobs and
stash profits overseas; reforms that will help save $210 billion
over the next ten years.
These important steps are just
one part of a broad effort to
get government, businesses, and
banks to act more responsibly,
so that we're creating
good jobs and making sound
investments instead of
spending recklessly and padding
false profits.
Because American institutions
must act with the same sense of
responsibility and fairness that
the American people aspire to in
their own lives.
Nowhere is this more
apparent than in our credit
card industry.
Americans know that they have
a responsibility to live within
their means and
pay what they owe.
But they also have a right not to get ripped off by the sudden
rate hikes, unfair penalties,
and hidden fees that have become
all-too common in our
credit card industry.
You shouldn't have to fear that
any new credit card is going to
come with strings attached, nor
should you need a magnifying
glass and a reference book to
read a credit card application.
And the abuses in our credit
card industry have only
multiplied in the midst
of this recession,
when Americans can least
afford to bear an extra burden.
It is past time for rules
that are fair and transparent.
And that's why I've called for a
set of new principles to reform
our credit card industry.
Instead of an "anything
goes" approach,
we need strong and reliable
protections for consumers.
Instead of fine print
that hides the truth,
we need credit card forms and
statements that have plain
language in plain sight, and we
need to give people the tools
they need to find a credit
card that meets their needs.
And instead of abuse
that goes unpunished,
we need to strengthen
monitoring, enforcement,
and penalties for credit card
companies that take advantage of
ordinary Americans.
Now, the House has taken important steps towards putting
these principles into law, and the Senate is poised to do the
same next week.
Now, I'm calling on Congress
to take final action to pass a
credit card reform bill that
protects American consumers so
that I can sign it into
law by Memorial Day.
There's no time for delay.
We need a durable and successful
flow of credit in our economy,
but we can't tolerate profits
that depend on misleading
working families.
Those days are over.
Now, this economic crisis has
reminded us that we're all in
this together.
We can't prosper by
putting off hard choices,
or by protecting the profits of
the few at the expense of the
middle class.
We're making steady
progress towards recovery,
but we must ensure that the
legacy of this recession is an
American economy that
rewards work and innovation;
that's guided by fairness
and responsibility;
and that grows steadily
into the future.
Thanks.